woohoo it's new Macbook day my favorite
day on short circuit it only comes
usually once a year this is the MacBook
Pro
M4 looks pretty similar to the last one
but now it has an M4 instead of an M3
I'm not going to lie I am more of an M3
kind of guy but I can rock an M4 if I
have to we've got their usual mag safe 3
to USBC 2 m sleeved nice cable and then
a charging brick Oh I ripped it 70 wat
USBC charging at least with the 14in I'm
not sure what comes with the rest and
then the usual Apple propaganda these
still come with Apple stickers right do
these not come with Apple stickers
anymore bro what's the point in even
buying them then it's probably good for
the planet or something now if you're
wondering I am still rocking the same
Intel MacBook Pro over here I haven't
upgraded yet so this is again another
instance of me going hm maybe it's
finally time except when I got to set
today I realized tragedy struck we
bought the wrong MacBook it is still an
M4 Pro it's a good form factor we got
the 14in here in the sexy space black
color profile you can also get it in
silver of course but there was a
horrible error made and I'm not going to
tell you just yet you're going to have
to wait a second because first I need to
go over the outside of this thing we've
got an HDMI 2.1 port a USBC Thunderbolt
Port an SD card reer and then on the
other side another two USBC Thunderbolt
ports 3.5 mil combo audio jack and mag
safe there is an upgrade here on the
USBC ports they're now Thunderbolt 5
instead of Thunderbolt 4 at least on the
pro and Max models uh the base M4 spec
only is Thunderbolt 4 and that's good
for 120 gbit which is up to 3 times
faster than Thunderbolt 4 on the inside
bam it's it's pretty much the same
keyboard look at that I think it is
exactly the same keyboard pretty similar
touchpad and then there is the display
it looks pretty much the same same
resolution same xdr fancy technology it
is 1,000 nits Peak brightness when
you're Outdoors instead of 600 so that
should help with outdoor visibility um
there is another change I'm going to
tell you about in a bit but the big
thing is the new nanotexture option
which is an anti-glare coating and as
you can tell we don't have it and I saw
I Justine's video when it came out look
at the difference what the hell you
can't even use the one on the right and
the one on the left looks beautiful it
actually seems to work really well I
can't wait to try it myself and honestly
I think based on that if you're somebody
that does a lot of work in bright spaces
or Outdoors or places with Reflections
that could be reason enough alone to
upgrade we weren't able to get it
because trying to get these laptops in
Canada where we're from the supply chain
kind of sucks and it would have resulted
in us getting the laptop like 3 weeks
later and we already did get it late I
get it but I really wanted it just like
I want you to hear about our sponsor
dbrand and us I guess because we just
dropped our new circuit board skin in
collaboration with dbrand it's freaking
sick it features a custom circuit board
layout based on real PCB traces and
actually has a textured skin so you can
feel it and honestly it seems to improve
the grip of the device there's three
different colorways glow circuit short
circuit and dark circuit and the glow
circuit one as you can guess freaking
glows in the dark so much so that we
built a UV Arch to charge up Linus's car
that we wrapped with it so check it out
at the link below where dbrand also has
their Black Friday sale with up to 50%
off dbrand.com blackf Friday or sl4
fo9 look at that it's a laptop the most
talked about change with any new Macbook
generation is the CPU we've gone from M3
to M4 this specifically is the M4 Pro
base model so we've got the 12 core CPU
and 16 core GPU with 24 GB of RAM but
there is also a beefier version that
comes with two extra CPU and four extra
GPU cores that comes standard on the
16-in variant in fact you can't even get
a non-pro M4 16in MacBook Pro uh you can
on the 14-in but not the 16 now compared
to last generation this is obviously not
Apples to Apples I mean it is Apples to
Apples because they're both Apple
products but not a great comparison cuz
this is a 16 and this is a 14 regardless
M3 Pro to M4 Pro base model you get one
extra CPU core which is I guess an
upgrade right off the bat you also are
getting two more of your cores as
performance cores instead of efficiency
cores we'll have to see if that actually
makes a a difference but in theory it it
probably should as for the GPU it's two
more cores regardless of if you're going
for the bass or Bey M4 Pro the M4 chips
also feature second generation Ray
tracing which should make your games
even more Ray traced if you're trying to
rate trce them and maybe faster and
blender with Ray tracing I don't know
we'll have to see the other big thing is
memory bandwidth from 150 GB a second to
273 GB a second should in theory be good
for memory intensive workloads either
way it's an upgrade so I'm not
complaining man this new display I don't
have high refresh rate on my Intel
MacBook
and I like there's another new thing
with these new displays that hasn't
really been talked about and apple
didn't really mention but we got some
Insider info on they're both on the same
settings on the P3 profile in promotion
refresh rate we got the high refresh
rate and on auto brightness so if I open
this test on blur Busters you might
notice a bit of a difference between
them this guy you can see the lines look
super nice and white and clear
consistently
but if you look at the old screen do you
see how it kind of goes blue as the
lines are moving this is called cyan
Flash and what's happening is the LEDs
that drive the display the red LEDs are
a little bit slower to respond than the
rest about one frame worth you probably
wouldn't notice why you're like using
Google Docs but if you move around a
white object for instance on a black
screen you kind of get this weird effect
on the new one it's gone and that's
because the new display is quantum dot
they didn't say that but it is aside
from fixing the cyan flash these Quantum
dots would in theory improve the color
accuracy although Apple tries really
hard to hit the exact DCI P3 color gamut
which means even though this display
could probably be quite a bit more color
accurate than this one uh it's not
really going to see a huge difference
we'll check the lab tests in a sec and
then it also means that this display is
likely more power efficient than this
one because of the quantum dots that's
probably part of how Apple was able to
obtain a 2hour supposed better battery
life on the new models but I don't have
data to check that because we didn't
have an equivalent previous laptop to
test against it is as Apple claimed when
you are outside or you shine a
flashlight at the light sensor to make
it think like you're outside it will hit
a th000 nits in SDR content across a
100% window the entire display that's
pretty awesome it also will hit even
higher in HDR mode the same 1600 nits we
measured a tiny bit higher but overall
great performance the one weird thing is
in HDR the color accuracy by default is
not that great I don't know if it's like
Apple trying to do like the Costco thing
where they make things oversaturated but
in the default xdr profile HDR color
accuracy is kind of bad if you switch to
the HDR video color profile it's
excellent the other new thing in the
display region is the webcam it's a 12
megapixel Center Stage camera that
features desk view now what is that I
will show you Center Stage automatically
adjust your camera to keep it in view
great great this is what Center Stage
does it basically
just it's AI Zoom bro it's very smooth
right like does this feel kind of
natural but what is desk view yo what is
this the camera is super wide angle but
they're like cropping a section of it so
that you can have like a top down camera
even though it's just from your webcam
so look oh look at my sick top down
camera I'm doing an unboxing it's short
circuit setion can you guys see look at
that this is silly but also kind of cool
like if you're just trying to show your
your mom something it's it's kind of
limited cuz you got to tilt the camera
like I feel like they're this was some
apple Engineers like hackathon project
and it's like it's kind of cool but I
feel like people are probably not going
to use this very often while we're in
here we might as well try out the
speakers let's get some crab Rave
[Music]
going they sound really solid no
surprises there as for software there is
Mac OS COA now very exciting Apple
intelligence is featured in it but we
can't use it cuz we're still on the wait
list thanks Apple other than that it
looks pretty similar I don't know what
the difference is on the new Mac OS I
don't pay attention and usually to be
honest I don't even update my MacBook
until like the next next version is out
because Apple just likes to ship a new
OS every year and usually it's kind of
dog for the first few months don't at me
it's just a fact let's try the blender
monster under the bed demo I'm going to
start with GPU this one is an 18 core
and this is a 16 core but this does have
the new R tracing stuff so maybe it's
faster or still I wouldn't be surprised
if it is not faster or but it would be
pretty cool if the new base model Pro is
faster than the old upgraded Pro in a
larger chassis look at that dude 54
seconds 1 minute and 8 seconds it's
faster it's a smaller chassis it's the
lower spec one it's still faster at
least on the GPU end what if we try and
CPU oh my God this is going to take 6
minutes Jesus Christ 8 minutes remaining
on this one and 6 minutes remaining on
this one I can't really go off of the
ETA but like we have more performance
cores the CPU test is a little more
interesting to me because these do have
the same number of CPU cores the chassis
size difference is immediately apparent
because this one is already ramping up
to be honest you pretty rarely hear the
fan in these laptops and the 16 the 16
is still dead
quiet I can't hear anything while this
was running I wanted to check and see
what the TDP of these different laptops
is because I mean this one seems to be
going quite a bit faster and I don't
know if that would be possible without
drawing a bit more power and according
to notebook check the M3 Pro should be a
TDP of around 27 watts and the M4 pro at
least the 12 core option is 32 watts
with a boost up to 40 and then the 14
core is 40 Watts with a boost up to 46
so not like a ton more power but like a
few Watts all right there we have it 6
minutes 31 seconds 8 minutes 20 seconds
I don't know man that's pretty freaking
huge let's do one more thing for funsies
I don't want to run cine bench oh yeah
look at that cinebench reports 3.1
versus 3.5 gz I don't know how it
determines that maybe it's just like the
average GHz bam they're done finally
holy crap dude
1417 points on this test 1450 in the
last one and 1,074 on this one that is
like more than 300 points more 350 maybe
even 400 almost that's a lot more points
it's pretty impressive that this is the
last gen beefy one in a bigger chassis
and this new one is Still rocking it
even as a base model that being said
they definitely are putting more power
in here you got more gigahertz on this
one4 more gigahertz to to be exact and
you have more pees and clearly it shows
this thing freaking rips despite the
higher power CPU apple is actually
claiming more battery life on the new
models maybe that's in part due to the
fancy new display even though they don't
say that but we don't have an exact
model to compare against previously we
did at least test this one and it ran in
just about 12 hours which is pretty much
what we would expect for an Apple device
a far cry from Apple's claimed 22 hours
of video playback but we aren't doing it
probably in the exact way they expect
we're using the Plex app in our tests um
but definitely in a class that Apple
laptops are expected to be several hours
better than Windows gaming laptop for
instance and definitely still excellent
I mean overall I'm here for it it's a
Macbook and they actually made it faster
This Time by like a lot so overall it
actually this thing seems pretty sick if
you're somebody that has high
performance requirements video editing
probably photo editing blender all of
those things you're going to see a
consist considerable performance
increase over last gen I don't know if
that necessitates upgrading if you're
already on M3 but if performance matters
to you here you are this thing freaking
rips maybe it is time for me to finally
upgrade I feel like I've said that every
time
now and I you should get the fancy
screen the fancy screen looks sick so if
you like this video get subscribed let
me know down in the comments what you
think about the new Macbook I feel like
it's time for a design refresh but I'm
I'm just stoked for the screen I'm
stoked for the performance and I'm
stoked for you bye